---
title: "Reputation-based Interaction Promotes Cooperation with Reinforcement Learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-08-14-TEVC
excerpt: 'We introduce an adaptive interaction mechanism using reinforcement learning to study how artificial agents self-organize and adapt their connections in social dilemmas.'
date: 2023-08-14
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation (TEVC)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10215365'
citation: 'T. Ren and X.J. Zeng, "Reputation-based Interaction Promotes Cooperation with Reinforcement Learning," in IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation.'
---
In this paper, we introduce an innovative methodology for studying multi-agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) systems and shows the intricacies of cooperative behavior emergence, with potential applications in both human society and artificial intelligence. This work has a twofold contribution:

* **Innovative Approach**: It introduces a novel approach using RL to analyze interaction intensity in decentralized multi-agent systems. Combining RL with Evolutionary Game Theory (EGT) proves highly effective in promoting cooperation.

* **Insights into Cooperation**: The study explains why assortative mixing patterns occur in self-organizing populations with reputation-based interactions. This sheds light on the mechanisms driving cooperative behavior in multi-agent systems, with implications for both human societies and artificial intelligence.

Download paper [from IEEE](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10215365) or download the [Accepted Author Manuscript](https://research.manchester.ac.uk/en/publications/reputation-based-interaction-promotes-cooperation-with-reinforcem).

Code for reproducing the experimental results presented in the paper can be [found from this repository](https://github.com/itstyren/reputationRL-coop).

I'm excited to share that this represents my initial public contribution from my PhD research, and I'm eagerly looking forward to receiving any feedback!


> Recommended citation: T. Ren and X. -J. Zeng, "Reputation-based Interaction Promotes Cooperation with Reinforcement Learning," in IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation. Early Access (2023).