---
title: "Temporal Interaction and its Role in the Evolution of Cooperation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-07-15-PRE
excerpt: 'We show that intermediate interaction frequencies and localized synchronization enhance cooperation in social dilemmas by balancing engagement and inactivity and fostering cooperative clusters.'
date: 2024-07-15
venue: 'Physical Review E (PRE)'
paperurl: 'https://journals.aps.org/pre/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevE.110.024210'
citation: 'Y. He, T. Ren, X.-J. Zeng, H. Liang, L. Yu, and J. Zheng, "Temporal Interaction and Its Role in the Evolution of Cooperation," Physical Review E, vol. 110, no. 2, pp. 024210, Aug. 2024.'
---

The interplay of individual interactions within social networks is crucial, especially when geographical constraints influence social bonds and drive behavioral evolution. Temporal networks, highlighting the changing nature of interaction duration and intensity over time, have recently gained prominence. However, most studies focus on deterministic pairwise interactions, overlooking the effects of interaction frequency and synchronicity in groups on cooperation. Our research addresses these complexities by incorporating two temporal interaction mechanisms that simulate stochastic or periodic involvement in public goods games, accounting for variability from external temporal influences and geographical disparities.

The simulation results show that maximum game participation frequency is suboptimal, while an intermediate activation probability yields the highest cooperation levels. Furthermore, our study reveals that local synchronization of interactions promotes dense cooperative clusters. These findings have implications for understanding how cooperation emerges in agent-based temporal and probabilistic interaction networks and for developing consensus, synchronization, and control of population behaviors.


Download paper [from PRE](https://journals.aps.org/pre/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevE.110.024210) or download the [Arxiv Version](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11782).

> Recommended citation: Y. He, T. Ren et al "Temporal interaction and its role in the evolution of cooperation," in Physical Review E (Accpeted).